This directory contains Grunge: a standalone terminal-based client
for RGTP[1], with a user interface mimicking Monochrome BBS[2].

 [1] http://www.groggs.group.cam.ac.uk/
 [2] http://www.mono.org/

This is a perfunctory README to enable somebody to use Grunge if
they are already technically competent, already have some
understanding of RGTP, already know where to find a server and what
login details are required, and already has experience with the
Monochrome BBS user interface. Nobody has yet attempted to use
Grunge who did not fit this description; if and when they do, I may
write better documentation, if I can't persuade them not to :-)

Grunge is configured by means of a file called ~/.grungerc . This is
a text file, each line of which contains a configuration directive
or a comment. Comments start with a hash; configuration directives
consist of a keyword followed by a space followed by
keyword-specific value data.

Configuration keywords are:

 - 'server': the host name of the RGTP server.
 - 'port': the port number to connect to on that server.
 - 'userid': the user id used to log in.
 - 'grogname': the default Grogname used when posting.
 - 'scan-straight-in': a boolean (values are 'yes' and 'no')
   controlling whether or not scanning with [SPACE] causes Grunge to
   immediately open an unread item and start reading it, or merely
   stop at the menu containing that file.
 - 'space-leaves-file': a boolean controlling whether pressing
   [SPACE] at the end of an item returns to the containing menu.
 - 'index-check-interval': a value, in seconds, indicating the
   minimum time between Grunge polling the server for index updates.

You should also create a file called ~/.groggsecret, which has the
same format as other clients such as Greed. Typically this means it
will contain one line of the form "md5-secret <hex data>", where
<hex data> is a byte-by-byte hex encoding of the shared secret used
in the RGTP MD5 authentication.

When it first connects, Grunge will retrieve the entire index from
the RGTP server, and store the salient parts of it in ~/.grungeindex
. This will take a little time, but thereafter Grunge will be able
to incrementally fetch just the new updates to the index.

If you set the environment variable GRUNGEDIR to point to a
directory other than $HOME, Grunge will attempt to locate all three
of the above files in that directory instead of in your home
directory. This is currently the only support for accessing
different servers.

Finally, while running 'grunge' will launch the main interactive
GROGGS-reading mode, there is a second mode of use, 'grunge -c',
which does a quick check of whether anything new exists to be read,
and prints 'You have new GROGGS!' if so.

(There are other command line options, but I haven't got round to
documenting them.)
