This directory contains the source files for the `Newton In Motion'
animated fractal DVD.

If you have all the right software installed and at least 15Gb of
free disk space, you should be able to run `make' in this directory
and have it generate you a `dvd' directory containing a filesystem
suitable for burning to a PAL DVD. To generate an NTSC DVD instead,
run `make NTSC=--ntsc'. (Neither one will be region-locked.) You may
also wish to run `make inlay' to create a PostScript file which
prints an inlay for the DVD case.

I've tested this procedure on Debian Linux 3.1, with some additional
software installed as described below. It may work on other
operating systems as well, but I can't be confident of that.

The software required to run the makefile is as follows. Where
version numbers are quoted, they indicate the version _I'm_ using.
Other versions may very well work too.

 - a basically POSIXy system containing `rm', `dd', `echo', /bin/sh
   and other standard Unix commands
 - GNU make 3.80
 - the ImageMagick utilities (`convert', `identify', `composite'
   etc), version 6.0.6
 - dvdauthor 0.6.11 (both the `dvdauthor' and `spumux' programs are
   required)
 - perl 5.8.4
 - ffmpeg, Debian package version 0.cvs20050313-2sarge1
 - TeX from Debian package tetex-bin 2.0.2-30sarge4
 - dvipng 1.5
 - sox 12.17.7
 - mjpegtools 1.9.0rc2 (`mpeg2enc', `mplex', `ppmtoy4m')
 - Last but not least, the `newton' fractal-plotting program from
   http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/newton/ .

Of these, the mjpegtools suite and `newton' are the only things I
wasn't able to install as standard Debian packages.

Note that the scripts assume the `newton' binary is in the current
directory, although they assume everything else is on $PATH.

The scripts are currently optimised for a dual-processor machine,
because that's what I've got. If you have a different number of
processors, you might find performance is improved by editing
newtonvideo.py and altering the definition of `maxjobs' from 2 to
something else.

Total rendering time is about 15 hours on my 2.4GHz Core 2 Duo, or
more like 20 hours for the NTSC version. This will vary with your
hardware, of course. The finished DVD filesystem should take up
about 4.3Gb.

(I'm not sure why there's such a big difference in rendering times
between PAL and NTSC. NTSC has more frames per second than PAL but
less data per frame, leading to about the same overall data rate, so
I wouldn't have expected a big difference in the total number of
fractal pixels that needed to be rendered. I can only assume there's
some fairly large overhead per frame which I haven't noticed.)

The source files for this video are copyright 2007 Simon Tatham. You
may redistribute them in accordance with the terms of the MIT
licence. See the file LICENCE for full details.
