Summary: PuTTY drops USERAUTH_BANNER when awaiting username input
Class: bug
Difficulty: tricky
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
Someone on comp.security.ssh said their login banner did not appear
when PuTTY prompted for a username, but did appear when they
specified the username ahead of time in the configuration.

<p>
This looks worryingly plausible, in fact: the loop on
<code>process_userpass_input()</code> appears to be throwing away
all incoming SSH messages, presumably because I didn't expect to be
receiving any; and that includes USERAUTH_BANNER. I didn't notice
this before because I tested against OpenSSH, which appears to delay
sending the banner until after the first (usually null)
USERAUTH_REQUEST. However, the poster was using WinSSHD, which sends
the banner as soon as the userauth protocol commences (which seems a
lot more sensible in retrospect!).

<p>
So in order to fix this in PuTTY I would have to spot
USERAUTH_BANNER during username input, and respond to it by doing
something thoroughly unpleasant, such as erasing the username input
line from the terminal, printing the banner, and redisplaying the
username input line after that. This is nasty, but it would have the
nice feature that if the banner was sent immediately, it would be
displayed <em>before</em> the user finished entering their username.

<p>
I've labelled this bug "tricky" because I'm not sure what to do
about Plink. Plink will call ssh_get_line and ignore ssh.c's own
username/password input function, which means that on the one hand
the banner won't be dropped on the floor in the current version, but
on the other hand it would be hard to display it ahead of the
username prompt in the fixed version.

<p>
If only the working group had listened to my suggestion of having a
ping message I could send during userauth and expect a reply. Then I
could send the ping, get a reply back, and if the banner had been
sent immediately on commencement of userauth then it would appear
before the ping response, and so I'd know whether there was a banner
to be displayed <em>before</em> beginning username input. Bah.
