Summary: Ability to lock settings against user changes
Class: wish
Priority: never
Difficulty: tricky
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
We get asked reasonably often if it's possible for a sysadmin to set
up PuTTY saved settings and then lock them, in such a way that their
users wouldn't be able to fiddle with them.

<p>
It's not, and I (SGT) don't intend that it ever should be. This is
for two reasons.

<p>
For a start, it seems to me to run counter to the whole point of
software, and certainly the whole point of PuTTY in particular,
which is to <em>enable</em> people to <em>do useful things</em>. The
reason I give my free time to develop PuTTY is because I enjoy
making it possible for people to do things they otherwise would not
have been able to do - and judging by the mail we get back from
happy users, they enjoy it too. So adding a feature which would
allow someone to stop people from doing things they otherwise
<em>would</em> have been able to do seems to me like a step
backwards.

<p>
Secondly, it wouldn't even work; or, at least, it wouldn't work in
all but the most ludicrously restrictive setups. The reason for this
is that this sort of restriction is <em>voluntary</em> on the part
of the application - so all a user would need to bypass it would be
a modified version of the application, which didn't voluntarily obey
the restrictions. And this wouldn't be hard to come by; even
commercial, closed-source programs which try to restrict users from
doing things give rise to cracking tools, distributed on the Web and
designed to bypass whatever restriction was imposed by the software.
A program whose source code is freely available to anyone with a web
browser would be an order of magnitude easier to do this to. I
confidently predict that if I implemented a user-restricting feature
in PuTTY, then it wouldn't take long for someone else to provide a
version for download which simply ignored the restrictions. So the
only environment in which a restricted PuTTY would actually be
secure would be one in which the user was somehow forcibly prevented
from installing an unrestricted version.

<p>
(Even locking the Registry itself against updates wouldn't protect
you against a version of PuTTY which had been modified to store its
data somewhere else. Really, your only chance of success is if you
completely prevent users from running any binaries except the ones
you supply.)

<p>
In summary: if I have my way then PuTTY will not implement a
voluntary locking mechanism. Any sysadmin who really,
<em>really</em> wants such a thing can of course modify the source
code and implement it themselves, and take whatever precautions they
feel necessary to ensure users don't download the original version
and bypass the restrictions; but I don't feel that it's an
appropriate use of the PuTTY team's time and effort, or an
appropriate use of space in the standard PuTTY binary (which we're
still trying to keep small).
