Summary: Support UTF-16 on Windows
Class: wish
Difficulty: tricky
Priority: low
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
Josef Hinteregger reports that the <code>CF_UNICODETEXT</code> data
stored by Windows in the clipboard is encoded in UTF-16; that is, it
can contain surrogate pairs representing characters outside the BMP.
PuTTY does not currently interpret those pairs. Of course, if it
did, it would also have to be able to write them out again when
copying to the clipboard itself or talking to the Windows GDI text
display primitives, etc.

<p>
I can see two sensible ways to solve this. One is to do translation to
and from UTF-16 on the platform side of the front end interface, if
necessary for a given platform. So:
<ul>
<li>
Stop using platform-sized <code>wchar_t</code> anywhere in the front
end interface: change the prototypes of <code>get_clip()</code>,
<code>write_clip()</code>, <code>luni_send()</code> and
<code>do_text()</code> (and any others I've missed) so that they use
arrays of <code>unsigned int</code> (containing UTF-32) rather than
<code>wchar_t</code>.
<li>
In the implementations of all those functions on the Windows front
end, implement the appropriate translation between UTF-32 and UTF-16.
<li>
Any other platform front ends which use UTF-16 will need to be
similarly modified.
</ul>

<p>
The other option is to do the UTF-32/UTF-16 translation on the
cross-platform side (<code>terminal.c</code> and
<code>ldisc.c</code>), and have it enabled or disabled by a
<code>#define</code> in each platform header file. (The
<code>#define</code> is certainly necessary: partly because we
shouldn't accept UTF-16 surrogate pairs coming from front ends which
are supposed to be speaking UTF-32, on the usual grounds of not
accepting redundant encodings, but mostly because
<code>terminal.c</code> will obviously need to know whether to
<em>send</em> surrogate pairs when sending Unicode data back to the
front end!)

<p>
I'm currently inclined to the first option, because UTF-16 is nasty
and I'd rather it complicated only those front ends that had to deal
with it than that it complicated the core code.
