Summary: Option to specify expected host key(s) on the command line
Class: wish
Priority: medium
Difficulty: fun
Content-type: text/x-html-body
Fixed-in: r10220

<p>
When people want to run PuTTY tools in a batch-mode context, and find
the host key verification to be inconvenient, we've always told them
to add the right host key to the registry ahead of time, rather than
<a href="accept-host-keys.html">asking us</a> for an option to accept
any old key or bodging a similar thing using <code>expect</code>-type
tools.

<p>
However, in some contexts this actually can't be done, because the
Windows registry isn't accessible in the environment where PuTTY needs
to run. So it would be useful to be able to specify the expected host
key in a different way, e.g. with a command-line option.

<p>
Another use for the same facility is in the case where a round-robin
DNS name points at multiple servers with different host keys, and the
user wants to connect to the round-robin name and accept any of the
host keys that might come back. We've generally advised people in this
situation to try to arrange for all the servers to have the
<em>same</em> host key (on the basis that if the servers are so
interchangeable that it doesn't matter which one you connect to, then
they must be in the same trust domain anyway and so there's no
security risk introduced by each of them being able to spoof the
others' SSH connections), but of course not every user is also the
sysadmin of their servers, so some people will have to live with
different host keys. Those users will also find PuTTY's standard host
key policy to be unhelpful, and would probably find it more useful to
be able to specify a list of host keys to be accepted.

<p>
<b>2014-09-09</b>: now implemented both a <code>-hostkey</code>
command line option and a matching GUI configuration mechanism. You
can enter either an SSH key fingerprint or an SSH-2 base64-encoded
blob. If enabled, this option completely replaces the automated host
key management &#8211; the registry host key store will be neither
consulted nor updated.
