Summary: Handle SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED more usefully
Class: wish
Priority: medium
Difficulty: fun
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
If an SSH server sends us <code>SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED</code>, we
currently report it as "Strange packet received: type 3" and close
the connection. It would at the very least be better if we reported
it as SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED, and ideally also gave some idea of
<em>what</em> the server had claimed not to understand.

<p>
It's not completely clear to me how far we can sensibly take this
sort of error reporting, but we could usefully at least be prepared
to deal with common cases. For instance, servers which don't support
rekeying: when we initiate a rekey, we could remember the sequence
number of the SSH2_MSG_KEXINIT we send out, and if we subsequently
see SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED citing that sequence number then we could
give an error message which actually suggested a corrective measure
to the user ("try manually enabling 'Handles SSH-2 key re-exchange
badly' in the Connection > SSH > Bugs panel").

<p>
(In that particular case, it might even be possible to abandon the
rekey and proceed with the rest of the connection &#8211; see
<a href="kexinit-unimplemented.html">kexinit-unimplemented</a>
&#8211; although I don't know if servers would in general even cope
with that, and also I think it would be a bad idea not to at least
warn the user of the drop in security.)

<p>
If we felt enthusiastic, we could try being more ambitious: it might
be feasible, for instance, to keep track of <em>all</em> the message
type codes for messages we've recently sent out. Whenever we see any
message we can identify as the reply to some specific thing we sent,
we can delete that and everything before it from our queue; then for
any <code>SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED</code>, we'll always be able to
specify exactly what type of message the server didn't understand.

<p>
All of this, of course, assumes the server is sending out
<code>SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED</code> messages containing a correct
packet sequence number. Some servers (in violation of the SSH spec) do
not bother, and just put zero in the sequence number field when they
send <code>SSH2_MSG_UNIMPLEMENTED</code>.
