Summary: Enhanced flexibility in SSH host key selection policy
Class: wish
Priority: medium
Difficulty: tricky
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
PuTTY's SSH-2 host key selection policy currently involves a fixed
preference order of RSA then DSA. I occasionally think it would be
good to add a preference list to tweak the policy, either to put DSA
first (if you're really mad) or to move DSA to below the "warn below
this line" line.

<p>
When there's a choice of host keys available for a host, perhaps
PuTTY should adjust its stated preferences so that the ones it
already has cached come first. Need to think about that a bit. At
the very least, when a new host key prompt is given, PuTTY should
mention if it already has host keys for a host in other formats -
particularly important when the <a href="ssh2-default.html">default
protocol changes to SSH-2</a>, or a server that previously offered
DSS keys starts supporting RSA too.

<p>
Finally, there's currently undesirable behaviour in PSFTP if you
click "accept once" on a host key at startup and then leave the
connection open for long enough to trigger a rekey timeout: since
the host key has only been accepted once, PSFTP puts up the
confirmation message again, in the middle of a command-line session,
which is pretty nasty. Certainly at the very least we should treat
"accept once" on a host key to mean accept for the whole of a
<em>session</em> rather than for a single KEX; additionally, we
probably ought to think about some sort of sensible behaviour if the
host key we initially accepted has disappeared by rekey time.
