Summary: Ability to use OpenSSH and ssh.com SSH-2 private keys directly (without first converting with PuTTYgen)
Class: wish
Difficulty: tricky
Priority: low
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
We are occasionally asked if PuTTY could acquire the ability to use
foreign private key formats. The PuTTY <em>suite</em> supports these
key formats, in the sense that PuTTYgen can load and save them and
convert them into PuTTY's own PPK key format; but a conversion step
is required, because PuTTY itself does not include the foreign key
import code.

<p>
I'm unwilling to do this, because I designed the PPK format rather
carefully with some specific design goals in mind, and PuTTY in its
current form actually depends on those design goals. The advantages
of the PuTTY key format are:

<ul>
<li>
<b>Public half of key is stored in plaintext</b>. OpenSSH's private
key format encrypts the entire key file, so that the client has to
ask you for your passphrase before it can do anything with the key
at all. In particular, this means it has to ask for your passphrase
before it can even <em>offer</em> the public key to the server for
authentication. PuTTY's format stores the public key in plaintext
and only encrypts the private half, which means that it can
automatically send the public key to the server and determine
whether the server is willing to accept authentications with that
key, and it will only ever ask for a passphrase if it really needs
to.
<p>
I think OpenSSH will read a <code>.pub</code> file for this
purpose if it appears alongside the private key file, but this is a
source of confusion as often as convenience (I've seen people
replace a private key file and leave an out-of-date
<code>.pub</code> alongside it, and then be very confused by the
resulting SSH authentication process!).

<li>
<b>Key is fully tamperproofed</b>. Key formats which store the
public key in plaintext can be vulnerable to a tampering attack, in
which the public half of the key is modified in such a way that
signatures made with the doctored key leak information about the
private half. For this reason, PuTTY's key format contains a MAC
(Message Authentication Code), keyed off the passphrase, and
covering the public <em>and</em> private halves of the key. Thus, we
provide the convenience of having the public key available in
plaintext but we also instantly detect any attempt at a tampering
attack, giving a combination of security and convenience which I do
not believe is found in any other key format. As a side benefit, the
MAC also covers the key's comment, preventing any possible mischief
that might be possible if someone were to swap two keys and
interchange the comments.
<p>
OpenSSH's approach of keeping the public key encrypted
<em>might</em> also provide some security against this type of
attack, but it's unclear that it provides proper protection:
encryption designed for confidentiality often leaves ways in which
the encrypted data can be usefully modified by an attacker. For real
integrity protection you want a real dedicated MAC, which is
designed to do precisely that.
</ul>

<p>
So in order to support non-PPK key formats in PuTTY, we would have
to revamp the public-key authentication code considerably, to make
it a lot more flexible about when it asked the user for a
passphrase. This would also lead to confusing subtle differences
in operation depending on the key type in use; supporting OpenSSH's
<code>.pub</code> files would also introduce the same failure mode
as OpenSSH exhibits when the two files get out of sync; and for all
of this coding effort on our part and potential UI-level chaos, we
would be providing users with the ability to decrease the security
of their private keys without even necessarily being aware of it.

<p>
Therefore, our current intention is not to implement this feature,
and our recommendation is that people convert foreign private key
formats to PPK in order to use them with PuTTY. This is not too
difficult now that we have a Unix command-line port of PuTTYgen,
which should make it feasible to automate such conversion.
