Summary: SSH-2 message strings etc should be in UTF-8
Class: bug
Difficulty: tricky
Priority: medium
Present-in: 2005-01-19 2009-08-29
Content-type: text/x-html-body

<p>
All of the human-readable and human-supplied strings in SSH-2,
including user names, passwords, banners, and error messages, are
specified to be encoded in UTF-8.  PuTTY currently ignores this and
uses whatever character-set the terminal happens to be configured to
use instead.  This is likely to cause trouble with passwords
containing non-ASCII characters, for instance.

<p>
Fixing this is relatively easy in PuTTY, where it's possible for the
SSH code to poke around in the terminal's state.  It's not so easy for
plink and PSFTP, which will need to gain an understanding of character
sets.

<p>
The OpenSSH client, which has much the same problem as plink, doesn't
attempt to have an opinion on character sets (at least as of 5.1p1);
everything will work according to the standard if the user's terminal
is in UTF-8 mode, and not otherwise, regardless of the locale that
OpenSSH is running in.

<p>
So it's to end up with a setup that mostly works but strictly breaches
the standard. For instance, a multi-hop scenario where the user's
terminal is in ISO-8859-1, and the end server's banner (say) is also
in that character set (illegally), but an intermediate client/server
running the OpenSSH client (or Plink) has a UTF-8 locale, works today
but would break if the intermediate client started having an opinion
on character sets.

<p>
Given this, if we fix this item, will we need an option to revert to
our old (non-standard) behaviour -- using the configured terminal
character set -- to cope with setups that have ended up looking like
this?
